+++
title = "Decision tool and Sample Size Calculator for Composite Endpoints"
date = 2020-01-10T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Marta Bofill Roig","Jordi Cortes-Martinez", "Guadalupe Gómez Melis"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["3"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = ""
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.03396"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = []

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

**Summary points:** 
- This article considers the combination of two binary or two time-to-event endpoints to form the primary composite endpoint for leading a trial.
- It discusses the relative efficiency of choosing a composite endpoint over one of its components in terms of: the frequencies of observing each component; the relative treatment effect of the tested therapy; and the association between both components.
- We highlight the very important role of the association between components in choosing the most efficient endpoint to use as primary.
- For better grounded future trials, we recommend trialists to always reporting the association between components of the composite endpoint.
- Common fallacies to note when using composite endpoints: i) composite endpoints always imply higher power; ii) treatment effect on the composite endpoint is similar to the average effects of its components; and iii) the probability of observing the primary endpoint increases significantly.

